
1. Which machine learning model you chose to use and why?
   I used Random Forests. 
   The main reason for using Random Forests is that it is not a plain vanilla classification problem of whether a customer will buy book or not.
   For each customer, or group of similar customers, their reasons to purchase or not purchase books would be different.
   A linear or polynomial SVM would not serve in this regard, as there could be multiple paths which lead to the decision of a customer's book purchase.
   An ensemble of decision trees would serve this purpose out of the algoritms learnt uptil now.
    
2. How you validated your model and why you chose to validate it in this way 
   The 2 csv files last assortment of books sent to customer and next assortment of books to be sent to customer.
   Out of these 2 files, the prior one served as a training data, after merging it with customer data, book price etc.
   This file had outcome, whether customer purchased the book or not.
   The second file was to be used for prediction and was used that way.
   The first file data was divided into 5 folds and with the help of GridSearchCrossValidation, first 4 folds were used for training and the last fold used for test.4
   There were multiple runs to reach optimal parameters for the Random Forest Algorithm for the best accuracy.
   Accuracy of around 75% was achieved with these parameters.

3. How to run your script
   My script is available to be viewed as a Kaggle Kernel below:
   https://www.kaggle.com/ishamandrekar/vedantu-assignment?scriptVersionId=18535708
   
   It can be either viewed/ downloaded from there to run in local or
   To see the final answer of the last run latest version of the kernel for the question " whether or not we can pay back our loan and afford the next
book purchase order" follow the below steps in local PC:
   1. In command prompt run the below:
      pip install kaggle
   2. Log in to your kaggle account and click on the Account menu, click Create New API Token.
      A file named kaggle.json will get downloaded.
      Place this file in .kaggle folder of your user folder, for me it was to be placed in below path:
	  C:\Users\Isha\.kaggle
   3. Now run the below command:
      kaggle kernels output ishamandrekar/vedantu-assignment -p "path where you want to store the output file"
	  
	  I used like below:
      kaggle kernels output ishamandrekar/vedantu-assignment -p C:/Users/Isha/Desktop/upgrad/Career_Services/Vedantu_Assignment/assignment	 

    I am also attaching the output file produced with the mail.	  
      	  

4. Any other features you would want to use (other data points you want to capture)
   I created a feature user_purchase_score, which was created based for each customer product combination in the prev and next assortment data.
   This purchase score was assigned based on below calculation:
   - find all the customers who purchased this product.
   - fetch the user similarity score for this user and these customers, and purchase score user is the summation of (user similarity score * purchased flag(1/0))
   - user similarity score was calculated based on user correlations, based on euclidean distance.
   
   Another feature which I though needed more attention was age group. 
   For some records this age group was missing, which could be imputed in a better way based on say user similarity matrix or some other method.
   
5. Brief variables you would want to engineer
   Could not think of any more apart from user_purchase_score, which I have already used.